In recent years, many organizations
are using network services in the cloud.
So in addition to securing
on-premises networks,
a security analyst will need
to secure cloud networks.
In a previous video, you learned that
a cloud network is a collection of
servers or
computers that stores resources and
data in a remote data center that
can be accessed via the internet.
They can host company data and
applications using cloud computing to
provide on-demand storage,
processing power, and data analytics.
Just like regular web servers, cloud
servers also require proper maintenance
done through various security
hardening procedures.
Although cloud servers are hosted
by a cloud service provider,
these providers cannot prevent
intrusions in the
cloud—especially intrusions from
malicious actors, both internal and
external to an organization.
One distinction between
cloud network hardening and
traditional network hardening is
the use of a server baseline image for
all server instances stored in the cloud.
This allows you to compare data in
the cloud servers to the baseline image to
make sure there haven't been
any unverified changes.
An unverified change could come from
an intrusion in the cloud network.
Similar to OS hardening, data and
applications on a cloud network are kept
separate depending on
their service category.
For example, older applications should be
kept separate from newer applications,
and software that deals with internal
functions should be kept separate
from front-end applications seen by users.
Even though the cloud service provider
has a shared responsibility with
the organization using their services,
there are still security measures that
need to be taken by the organization to
make sure their cloud network is safe.
Just like traditional networks, operations
in the cloud need to be secured.
You're doing great!
Meet you in the next video.